* **Asynchronous JavaScript and XML** (AJAX): is a technology to provide **dynamical** content which is beyond the ability of HTML/HTTP.
* The critical elements of dynamical content:
    1. a mechanism to register user behavior in the browser (and not just on the server);
    2. a scripting engine to formulate responses to those events;
    3. a more versatile data requesting mechanism for fetching information **asynchronously**.
* The **key** for scrap information from AJAX-enriched websites is to understand at which point the data of interest is **loaded** and apply this knowledge to **trace** the origin of the data.

# 1. JavaScript
* JavaScript programming language: is a complete, high-level programming language.
    * Seamless integration with other web technologies.
    * It is supported by all modern browsers.

## 1.1 How JavaScript is used

3 method for enhancing the HTML

1. Adding _in-line code_ into the `<script>` rags.
2. Make _reference_ to an externally stored JavaScript code file via a path passed to the `scr` attribute of the `<script>` element.
3. Adding **event handlers** in an attribute of a specific HTML element.

## 1.2 DOM manipulation
* **DOM manipulation**: create some kind of alteration of the information or appearance of the browser display.
* The possible alterations:
    * HTML elements can be removed, added or shifted.
    * attributes to any HTML element can be added or changed.
    * CSS styles can be modified.
* **JQuery**'s method:
    * Begin with the `$()` operator, to chose the elements you want to work on.
    * `ready()` document ready handler: takes *document* element, to pause all JavaScript code execution until the entire DOM has been built inside the browser. It can make sure that all script acts on elements exists in the DOM.
    * `hide()`: in the initial state of the page the elements are hidden.
    * `click()`: allows recognizing whenever a mouse clicks on the element and trigger an action.
    * `$(this)`: return the elements was clicked.
    * `nextAll()`: selects all the nodes following after the node.
    * `slideToggle(300)`: defines a (300ms) toggle effect for fading the elements in and out again.

# 2. XHR
* **Synchronous communication** means that the user's interaction with the browser is being disabled while a request is received, processed, and a new page is delivered by the web server.
* **XMLHttpRequest(XHR)**: a popular method to allow for a **continuous** exchange of information between the browser and the web server.
* It allow the browser to fetch additional information in the background **without** interfering with the user's behavior on the page.
