---
title: "2.2. String"
output: 
    word_document:
        path: C:/Users/zsy/Documents/google_drive/Notes/programming/2.2. String.docx
---
# 1. Basics

## 1.1 Features

* Python3 supports the Unicode standard. 

* Strings are a **sequence** of characters.

* Strings are immutable in Python. You **can't** change a string inplace, but you can copy parts of strings to another string to get the same effect

## 1.2 Creating strings
* Using single quotes ('') or double quotes ("") to quotes the characters.

* Three single quotes ('''...''') or three double quotes ("""...""") could be used to generate **multiline** strings.

* If there are multiple lines within triple quotes, the line ending characters and the leading or trailing spaces will be _preserved_ in the string.

* In interacting interpreter, print a multiline string with calling its variable name will show the line changing symbols literally as `\n`, which is different with using `print()`.

* **Empty strings**: could be generated by a pairwise quotes, such as '', "", '''''', """"""

* `str()` is used to convert things into string.

## 1.3 Escape with `\`

symbols| meanings
---|---
`\n` | begin a new line
`\t` | tab
`\'` or `\"` | literal ' or "
`\\` | literal \

## 1.4 Basic operations

Operation | Usage | example
--- | --- |---
`+` | combine literal strings or string variables. | "a" + "b" ; "ab"
`+=`| append new characters after existent strings. | s = "a", s += "b", print(s) ; "ab"
`*` | duplicate s string | "a" * 4 ; "aaaa"
`[]` | extract characters from string | letters = "abc", letters[1] ; "b" / letters[-1] ; "c"

## 1.5 Slice with [start:end:step]
Extract a substring from a string.

symbols | meaning
--- | ---
[:] | extracts the entire sequence from start to end
[start:] | from _start_ to the end
[:end] | from the beginning to the _end-1_
[start : end] | from the _start_ to the _end-1_
[star : end : step] | from _start_ to _end-1_, skipping characters by _step_
[::step] | go through the whole string from star to end, in steps of _step_

* **Tips**:

    * The _end_ needs to be **one more** than the actual offset.

    * The elements inside '[]' (_start_, _end_, _step_) could absent one or tow, but the position of them should be explicit by using ':'.

    * **Negative integers** could be used to specify the characters counting from right side. For example, string[:-1] or string[-6:-2]

## 1.6 build-in functions for string

functions | usage
--- | --- 
`len(string)` | counts characters in a string
`string.split(sep)` | break a string into a _list_ of smaller strings based on some separators.
`sep.join(list)` | Collapse a list of string into a single string. 
`string.startswith(substring)` | Whether the _string_ starts with _substring_? 
`string.endswith (substring)` | Whether the _string_ end with _substring_? 
`string.find(word)` | Find the offset of the first occurrence of the word 
`string.rfind(word)` | Find the offset of the lat occurrence of the _word_
`string.count(word)` | How many times does the _word_ occurs in the _string_.
`string.isalnum()` | Are all of the characters in the _string_ either letters or numbers?

## 1.7 Case and alignment
functions | usage
:---:|:---:
**Case** |
`string.strip(characters)` | remove _characters_ from both ends
`string.capitalize()` | Capitalize the first word
`string.title()` | Capitalize all the words
`string.upper()` | Convert all characters to Uppercase
`string.lower()` | Convert all characters to Lowercase
`string.swapcase()` | Swap upper- and Lowercase
**Alignment** |
`string.center(n)` | Center the string within _n_ spaces
`string.ljust(n)` | left justify within _n_ spaces
`string.rjust(n)` | right justify within _n_ spaces

## 1.8 Substitute with replace()
functions | usage
--- | ---
`string.replace(old, new, n)` | replace _old_ with _new_ in _n_ instances
`string.replace(old, new)` | replace all instances

* Tips: if you want to replace word 'a ', remember to add a space after letter 'a', otherwise the python will identify all litter 'a' even those compound words.

* Other things for string: [Official guides](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#string-methods)