---
title: "3.1 Lists"
author: Shuyu
date: 23th. Sept. 2018
output: 
    word_document:
        path: C:/Users/zsy/Documents/google_drive/Notes/programming/3.1 Lists.docx
---
# 1. Basics

* _Tuples_ and _lists_ are sequence structures with each element can be **any** Python objects

* _Tuples_ are **immutable**; _lists_ are **mutable**

## 1.1 Create _lists_

* Create with `[]` surrounding zero or more elements.

* Using function `list()`

* list comprehension

* the values in lists should **not** be unique. (If you want to keep track of unique values and don't care about order, `set` might be a better choice.)

## 1.2 convert things to lists

* Using function `list()`

* Split a string using `split()`

## 1.3 Extract elements 

* Using `list_name[offset]`

* offset: forward from beginning is **0**, 1, 2, ...; Backward from end is -1, -2, -3, ...

## 1.4 A list of list

* Combine several lists into a list : whole_list = [_list1_, _list2_, _list3_, ....]

* Access to one element list in the list by call [offset]: whole_list[1] returns _list2_

* Access to one element in the element list by call [offset_list][offset_element]: whole_list[1][3] returns the fourth element in _list2_

* You can change an item by calling [offset] and reassign a value to it.

## 1.5 Get a slice to extract items by offset range

* operation: Using `list[start:end:step]` to extract elements from _start_ to _end-1_ with skipping _step_ elements.

* Slicing can be performed back forward by setting _step_ as **negative** integers. Calling `list[::-1]` will reverse the list

## 1.6 Add elements

* `list.append(new)`: Adding new elements to the end of list. If _new_ is a list with more than one elements, it would have been added as a **single** list as a element of the old list.

* `list.extend(new)` or `list += new`: combine lists

* `list.insert(offset, new)` : add _new_ into _list_ at the position with _offset_. If _offset_ beyond the length of list it will be insert at the end.

## 1.7 Delete elements

* `del list[offset]`: delete the element in the list at position with _offset_. **Note** `del` is a Python _statement_ not a list method. It's sort of the reverse of assignment (=).

* `list.remove(value)`: delete an item by _value_.

* Get an item by offset and delete it by using `pop()`. Default argument of `pop()` is '-1' which means delete the **last** one.

    * Using `append()` to add elements and using `pop()` to delete: LIFO (Last in first out) queue or **stack**.

    * Using `append()` to add elements and using `pop(0)` to delete: FIFO (First in first out) queue.

## 1.8 Find values

* `list.index(value)`: return the **first** offset of the _value_ in the _list_

* _value_ `in` _list_: Whether the value is in the list? return `True` or `False`

## 1.9 Order the elements in the list

* `list.sort()` : sorts the list itself, **in place**

* `sorted(list)` : returns a sorted **copy** of the list.

* `list.sort(reverse = True)` : sort the elements in a reverse order

## 1.10 Functions also used in string

* `list.count(value)`: count the number of _element_ occurs in list

* `len(list)`: Calculate the number of items in a list.

* `sep.join(list)`: Convert a list into a string. **note** as `join()` is a method for string not for list, you have to put _list_ inside the brackets instead of separate.

## 1.11 Assign with `=`, Copy with `copy()`

* When you **assign** one **list** to more than one variable, change the list in one place also changes it in the other.(It doesn't work on a number or string.)

* **Copy** the value of the list will avoid this situation. The following functions can be used:

    * The list `copy()` function
    
    * The `list()` conversion function

    * The list slice[:]