---
title: "3.3 Dictionary"
author: Shuyu
date: 29th Sept. 2018
output: 
    word_document:
        path: C:\Users\zsy\Documents\google_drive\Notes\programming\3.3 Dictionary.docx
---
# 1. Basic

* A dictionary is similar to a list, but:
    * The **order** of items doesn't matter;
    * They aren't selected by offset
    * a **unique key** is associated with each value
    * the **key** can be any of Python's **immutable** types: boolean, integer, float, tuple, string. It can't be list, dictionary, or set.

## 1.1 create or convert

1. `{}` : around comma-separated **key:value** pairs. When creating one pair dictionary.
2. `dict()` : convert two value sequences (two-item lists/tuples, a list/tuple of two character strings) to dictionary.

## 1.2 Add, change and delete items 

1. `dictionary[new_key] = value` : add a new item into dictionary
2. `dictionary[old_key] = value` : replace the value of item with *old_key* to *value*
3. `dictionary.update(new_dictionary)`: combine dictionaries
4. `del dictionary[key]`: delete items by _key_
5. `dictionary.clear()`: delete all items

## 1.3 Test and get elements
1. key `in` dictionary: Test if _key_ is in the _dictionary_. return True or False
2. `dictionary[key]`: get an item by _key_. If the _key_ is not in the _dictionary_, you get a 'KeyError'
3. `dictionary.get(key, optional_value)`: get an item by _key_. If _key_ is in _dictionary_, you get the corresponding value, otherwise, you get *optional_value*. If no *optional_value* was defined you get None
4. `dictionary.keys()`: get all keys.
5. `dictionary.values()`: get all values.
6. `dictionary.items()`: get all items.

In Python 3, the commands `keys`, `values`, `items` only return a **iterable view** of the corresponding stuffs in dictionary fot memory and time saving. If you want lists, use `list()` to convert them. (In Python 2 you don't need to do conversion.)

## 1.4 Assign and copy
1. `=`: assign a list to a variable
2. `dictionary.copy()`: copy _dictionary_.
