---
title: "5.2 Packages"
author: Shuyu
date: 3rd. Oct. 2018
output:
    word_document:
        path: C:/Users/zsy/Documents/google_drive/Notes/programming/5.2 Packages.docx
---

# 1. Basic concepts
* You can organize modules into file hierarchies called packages.
* "from package import module1, module2":  import modules from package.
* enumerate(): takes apart a list and feeds each item of the list to the for loop.

# 2. Python standard library

## 1. Handle missing keys with **setdefault()**, and **defaultdict()**
1. dictionary.setdefault(key : default_value): if key doesn't exist in the dictionary, the default_value will be returned and the new key:default_value pair will be added into dictionary. If key does exist, the corresponding value will be returned and nothing changes in dictionary.
2. defaultdic(func_name): in the package collections
    * It is used when the dictionary is generated. (dictionary = defaultdict(func_name))
    * It holds a function as argument which returns the value to be assigned to a missing key. 
    * You can use the functions int(), list(), or dict() to return default empty values for those types.
    * You can use lambda to define your default-making function: dictionary = defaultdict(lambda: expression)

## 2. Count items with **Counter()** : package collection
* Counter(list): returns a dictionary with key = items in list ; value = number of items in list
* list.most_common(count): returns all elements in descending order, or just the top count elements if giving 
* count.
* Operations: just like the operations in sets

symbols | describe
---|---
+ | combine counters (combine the Keys and the numbers)
- | subtract one counter from another.
& | the union of Counters
| | the intersect of Counters

## 3. Order by Key with **OrderedDict()**
* It is used when you create the dictionary: OrderedDict(list_of_key_value_pair)
* It remembers the order of key addition and returns them in the same order from an iterator.

## 4. Stack + Queue == **deque**
* A deque is a double-ended queue, which has features of both a stack and a queue.
* You can add and delete items from either end of a sequence.
* Functions:
   
Functions | describe
--- | ---
popleft()|removes the leftmost item from the deque and returns it
pop()|removes the rightmost item and returns it
deque()|package collection, generates a deque from a sequence

## 5. Iterate over code structures with **itertools**(package)

* Iterator functions return one item at a time when called with **for … in loop**, and remembers its state between calls.

Functions | describe
---|---
chain()|runs through its arguments as though they were a single iterable
cycle()|is an infinite iterator, cycling through its arguments
accumulate()|calculates accumulated values. By default, it calculates the sum; accumulate() can hold a function in it. The function should take two arguments and return a single result.

## 6. print nicely with **pprint()**: package pprint
Replace print() function to make the output pretty.

# 2. More Batteries: Get other Python code
* Good third-party Python software can be obtained from:

	* PyPi (also known as the Cheese Shop, after an old Monty Python skit)
	* github
	* readthedocs

