# MyLearningNotes
I build this repository to save skills, tips or other knowledge I learn when I reinventing myself from **Clinical Medicine** to **Data Analysis**. Keep going!

# Content

## Biology

It's always right to know all about your data. Medicine and Biology is where I came from and naturally should be where I start my new career.

This directory will hold some biological or medical knowledge required by my objects.

Now (2018.10-), I'm in "combination ot radiotherapy and chemotherapy". Whish me a good luck!

## Mathematic

Mathematic is a set of theory, logic, or skills generated by human beings for exploring the rule of our universe. Data analysis is just an application of these fruits from great wisdoms. I was deeply extracted by this area after my first glance into the real math world with self-learning "Thomas' Calculus" in 2017(previously I just take a very simple calculus course for clinical medicine students). I desire to know more about it.

## Programming

As mathematic is the tool for human to understand our world, computer is one of the most useful invention for facilitating the mathematic computation and inference. In order to manipulate this powerful tool, programming (the language for communicating with computer) is very essential. I will begin with R and Python, most popular languages among data scientists now (2018). I also desire to dive deeper into this area, like algorithm. Anyhow, roman wasn't built in one day. I will try my best to keep my pace in this direction.

### R

[R](https://www.r-project.org/) is a free software environment for statistical computing and graphics. It compiles and runs on a wide variety of UNIX platforms, Windows and MacOS. This is the first programming tool I used for data analysis. I will write down the knowledge and skills I have learned as well as my thinking about R in this directory.

### Python

[Python](https://www.python.org/): is a popular _object-orient_ , high-level programming language. It is widely used in many fields like economy, Web design, data science and so on. I'll mainly focus on Python utility in "Data analysis" and step into other fields if possible. This repository contains what I have learned from lessons, practices, or work as well as my though about Python.

### Other

This directory will be used for some other knowledge or skills about programming.

## Books:

This directory records my reading notes about books I have read and the reading plans about the books I want to read.

### My book list:

#### Mathematic

* Thomas' Calculus (Weir, Hass, and Thomas 2014): 2018.7.28 - 2018.8.27
* Linear Algebra and Its application (Lay, and McDonald 2016): 2018.8.29 - 
* A Introduction of Statistic learning (James et al. 2013): 2018.2.28 - 2018.7.27
* Probability Theory (Jaynes and Bretthorst 2003): 2018.11.1 - 

#### Programming
1. R
* R in action: data analysis and graphics with R (Kabacoff 2015): 2017.1 - 2017.6 (I read this during my Master's study, exact date is not recorded)
* R Markdown: The Definitive Guide (Xie, Allaire, and Grolemund, n.d.): 2018.11.12 - 
* R Packages (Wickham 2015): 2018.11.16 - 

2. Python
* Introducing Python: modern computing in simple packages(Lubanovic 2014): 2018.9.23 - 

3. Other
* Code: the hidden language of computer hardware and software(Petzold 2000):2018.4.25-2018.4.30
