# Philosophy
* Anything that can be **automated**, should be **automated**.
* Do as _little_ as possible by hand.
* Do as _much_ as possible with function.
* The goal is to spend your time thinking about **what you want your package to do** rather than thinking about the minutiae of package structure.

# Basic structures in R package

   Component     |             Directory             |                                                                                 Contains
---------------- | --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
R Code           | `R/`                              | The R code (scripts)
Package metadata | `DESCRIPTION`                     | Description about what your package needs to work: What is does, who can use is (the license) and who to contact if things go wrong.
Documentation    | `.Rd`                             | Tell people how to use the functions in the package. {roxygen2}
Vignettes        | `Vignettes`                       | Function documentation describes the details of every function in your package. How to combine multiple parts of your package to solve real problems. {Rmarkdown}{knitr}
Tests            | `tests/`                          | Unit tests which define correct behaviors of your functions and alert you when functions break.
Namespace        | `NAMESPACE`                       | Define what functions it makes available to other packages and what functions it requires from other packages. {roxygen2}
External data    | `data/`                           | To bundle data in a way that's easy for R user to access, or just to provide compelling examples in your documentation.
Compiled code    | `src/`                            | Include speedy compiled code in other language, like C and C++.
Other components | `demo/`, `exec/`, `po/`, `tools/` | other components that are rarely needed.


# Required develope environment

Latest version of _R_: > 3.5.0
Latest version of _R studio_: > 0.99.149
Packages: `devtools`, `roxygen2`, `testthat`, `knitr`
C compiler and Other command line tools: 
* Windows: `Rtools`
* Mac: `XCode` or `Command Line Tools for Xcode`
* Linux: R development tools.