**DESCRIPTION** file is used to store important _metadata_ about your package.

**File format** of `DESCRIPTION`: DCF (the Debian control format). Each line consists of:
* a field name.
* a value.
* separated by a colon.
* When values span multiple lines, they need to be **indented**.

# Dependencies: What does your package need?

1. `Imports:`: list packages that was **required** in your package. 
    * The packages will be installed when installing your package.
    * It does **not** mean that it will be attached along with your package. _Explicitly referring to external functions using the syntax `package::function()` or using `namespace imports`_.

2. `Suggests:`: list packages that can be used in your package but **not necessary**. They might be used for example datasets, running tests, build vignettes, or maybe only one function that needs the package.
    * They are **not** automatically installed along with your package.

**Recommend**: putting one package on each line, and keeping them in alphabetical order.

`devtools::use_package()`: add `Imports` and `Suggests` to package.

If you need a specific version of a package, specify it in parentheses after the package name. `dplyr (>= 0.3.0.1)` Minimum version rather than an exact version is recommended.

3. Other dependencies:
    * `Depends`: It's the old version of `Imports`. Now, it can be used to require a specific version of R.
    * `LinkingTo`: packages rely on C or C++ code in another package.
    * `Enhances`: packages are "enhanced" by your package.
    * `SystemRequirements`: things that your package needs outside of R. It is just a reference and will not be automatically checked.

    

