# What is it?
* It is the `.Rd` files that in the `man/` directory.
* It contains the context that users will read when calling `help()` or `?`.

# Documentation workflow

**Choice one**:

1. Add roxygen comments to your `.R` files.
2. Run `devtool::document()` or (Ctrl + Shift + D in RStudio) to convert roxygen comments to `.Rd` files.
3. Preview documentation with `?`.
4. Rinse and repeat until the documentation looks the way you want.

**Choice two**: this completely rebuilds the package and allows you to see the links between pages in the preview documentation pages.

1. Add roxygen comments to your `.R` files.
2. Click `Build & Reload` in the build pane or press `Ctrl + Shift + B`.
3. Preview documentation with `?`.
4. Rinse and repeat until the documentation looks the way you want.

# Syntax

The syntax of `.Rb` files use a custom syntax loosely based on LaTex and are rendered to HTML, plain text and pdf for viewing.

# Roxygen comments

* Start with `#'` and come **before** function.
* Each line should be wrapped in the same way as your code, normally at 80 characters.
* **Tags** break **blocks** into different elements in form as `@tagName details`.
* Escape `@` in your block with doubling it as `@@`.

## Construction of Roxygen block

1. **Introduction**: the contnent before the first tag.
    1. The first sentence becomes the **title** of the documentation.
        * fit on one line.
        * written in sentence case.
        * not end in a full stop.
    2. The second paragraph is the **description**: briefly describe what the function does.
    3. The third and subsequent paragraphs go into the **details**: it is a section that is shown after the argument description and should go into _details_ about how the function works. (Optional)
        * tags for user to **navigate** within documentations.
            * `@setion`: add arbitrary sections. 
            * `@seealso`: allows you to point to other useful resources: 
                * on the web `\url{http://www.r-project.org}`.
                * in your package `\code{\link{functioname}}`.
                * another package `\code{\link[packagename]{functioname}}`.
            * `@family`: specify the _family_ this function belongs to.
        * tags for user to **find documentation**.
            * `@aliases alias1 alias2 ...`: adds additional aliases to the topic.
            * `@keywords keyword1 keyword2 ...`: adds standardised keywords. They are optional, but if present, must be taken from a _predefined list_ found in `file.path(R.home("doc"), "KEYWORDS")`.
            * `@keywords internal` removes the function from the package index and disables some of its automated tests.

# Documenting functions
1. `@param name description`: describes the function's inputs or parameters.
2. `@examples`: executable R code showing how to use the function in practice.
    * Include examples directly from the next line below `@examples` tag.
3. `@example`: Put examples in seperate files and use `@example path/relative/to/package/root` to insert them into the documentation.
4. `@return description`: describes the output from the function.

# Documenting packages
Provide a help page for your package as a whole which could be accessed with `package?foo`.

* It can be used to describe the **most important** components of your package.
* Using `@section` tag to divide up page into useful categories.
* Ending the document with 

    ```
    #' @docType package
    #' @name pkname
    NULL
    ```
* Putting it in a file called `pkname.R` is recommended.

# Documenting classes, generics and methods

This depends on the **object system** you are using:

## S3
