# External Data
 * **Binary data** and make it **available** to user: `data/`
 * **Parsed data** but **not** available to user: `R/sysdata.rda`.
 * **Raw data**: `inst/extdata`

# Exported Data
`data/`

* Each file in this directory should be a `.RData` file.
* Created by `save()` containing a single object.
* Or create with `devtools::use_data(data, pkg)`.

If `DESCRIPTION` file contains `lazyData: true`, then datasets will be lazily loaded. It means they **won't occupy memory** until you use them. (_recommend_)

# Documenting datasets
* Document the name of the dataset and save it in `R/`.
* Syntax is similar to function documentation, except two special tags:
    * `@format` gives an overview of the dataset. For data frames, you should include a definition list that describes each variable.
    * `@source` provides details of where you got the data. Often a `\url{}`.
* **Never** `@export` a data set.

# Internal data

* Save in `R/sysdata.rda`
* Create with `devtools::use_data(data, pkg, internal = TRUE)`
* Include the code used to generate it in `data-raw`.
* They **don't** need to be documented.

# Raw data
* If you want to show examples of loading/parsing raw data, put the originl files in `inst/extdata`.
* When the package is installed, all files (and folders) in `inst/` are moved up one level to the top-level directory (so they can’t have names like `R/` or `DESCRIPTION`). 
* To refer to files in `inst/extdata` (whether installed or not), use `system.file()`

# Other data
* **Data for tests**: it’s ok to put small files directly in your test directory. But remember unit tests are for testing correctness, not performance, so keep the size small.

* **Data for vignettes**. If you want to show how to work with an already loaded dataset, put that data in `data/`. If you want to show how to load raw data, put that data in `inst/extdata`.