# Deductive reasoning (Organon of Aristotle)

**2 Strong syllogism(apodeixis)**

1. If A is true, then B is true.
$$\frac{A\ is\ true}{therefore, B\ is\ true}$$

2. If A is true, then B is true.
$$\frac{B\ is\ false}{therefore,\ A\ is\ false}$$

---

# Plausible reasioning

**3 weaker syllogisms(epagoge)**

1. If A is true, then B is true
$$\frac{B\ is\ true}{therefore,\ A\ becomes\ more\ plausible.}$$

2. If A is true, then B is true
$$\frac{A\ is\ false}{therefore,\ B\ becomes\ less\ plausible.}$$

3. If A is true, then B becomes more plausible
$$\frac{B\ is\ true}{therefore,\ A\ becomes\ more\ plausible.}$$

---

# The pattern for human brain doing plausible reasoning
1. Direction: Does something become _less_ or _more_ plausible, based on current observation.
2. Degree: _How much confidence_ do you have on drawing the conclusion, based on current observation.
3. Experience(common sense): Adjusting the conclusion with some _prior information_.

---

# Making a thinking machine
## Ideal
1. Understand the **mechanism** of "thinking" in human brain.
2. **Reproduce** the procedure of "thinking" with artificial _thinking machine_.

## Reality (with some discount)
1. Realize **part** of the _mechanism_ of "thinking" (_common sense_).
2. Generate **mathematical concept, theory and model** to _mimic_ the procedure.
3. Implement those _mathematical things_ on real problems with our **machine (computers)**.

## Probability theory (with more discount)
Realizing the **normative principle of logic**, not the principles of psychology or neurophysiology in the plausible reasoning procedure.

It means we will build a **extremely rational**  "brain" with striping away any emotional factors.

The **problem** that "Probability theory" want to solve:

> How could we build a machine which would carry out **useful** plausible reasoning, following **clearly defined** principles expressing and **idealized** common sense?

---

# The things that our robot will (or can) do:

1. Reasoning about **propositions** (The _A_, _B_ things)
2. The propositions must have an **unambiguous meaning**.
3. The propositions must be of **simple, definite logical type**. (_True_ or _False_)

---

# Boolean algebra

Symbols        |             Names              |                  Description
-------------------- | ------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------
AB                   | logical product or conjunction | Both A **and** B are true
A + B                | logical sum or disjunction     | One of A **or** B is true
A = B                | equal truth value              | A and B has the **same** truth values
A $\equiv$ something | equals by definition           | A equals to _somthing_ by **definition
$\bar{A}$            | Denial                         | **Denial** of A
A $\Rightarrow$ B    | imply                          | A implies B: only that $A\bar{B}$ is **false**

**Note**: Each of two operations NAND (AND, NOT) and NOR (OR, NOT) can constitute an adequate set of deductive logic without other symbol's help.

# The basic desiderata of our robot (Probability theory)

1. Degrees of plausibility are represented by **real numbers**.
2. Qualitative correspondence with common sense.
3. consistency:
    1. If a conclusion can be reasoned out in more than one way, then every possible way must lead to the same result.
    2. The robot is completely **nonideological**. (always considers all of the evidence)
    3. If in two problems the robot's state of knowledge is the same, then it must assign the same plausibility in both.
